# Serving Static Content

Configure NGINX and NGINX Plus to serve static content, with type-specific root directories, checks for file existence, and performance optimizations.

This section describes how to configure NGINX and NGINX Plus to serve static content, how to define which paths are searched to find requested files, how to set up index files, and how to tune NGINX and NGINX Plus, as well as the kernel, for optimal performance.

## Root Directory and Index Files

The [root](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#root) directive specifies the root directory that will be used to search for a file. To obtain the path of a requested file, NGINX appends the request URI to the path specified by the `root` directive. The directive can be placed on any level within the `http {}`, `server {}`, or `location {}` contexts. In the example below, the `root` directive is defined for a virtual server. It applies to all `location {}` blocks where the `root` directive is not included to explicitly redefine the root:

```nginx
server {
    root /www/data;

    location / {
    }

    location /images/ {
    }

    location ~ \.(mp3|mp4) {
        root /www/media;
    }
}
```

Here, NGINX searches for a URI that starts with `/images/` in the `/www/data/images/` directory in the file system. But if the URI ends with the `.mp3` or `.mp4` extension, NGINX instead searches for the file in the `/www/media/` directory because it is defined in the matching `location` block.

If a request ends with a slash, NGINX treats it as a request for a directory and tries to find an index file in the directory. The [index](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_index_module.html#index) directive defines the index file’s name (the default value is `index.html`). To continue with the example, if the request URI is `/images/some/path/`, NGINX delivers the file `/www/data/images/some/path/index.html` if it exists. If it does not, NGINX returns HTTP code `404 (Not Found)` by default. To configure NGINX to return an automatically generated directory listing instead, include the `on` parameter to the [autoindex](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_autoindex_module.html#autoindex) directive:

```nginx
location /images/ {
    autoindex on;
}
```

You can list more than one filename in the `index` directive. NGINX searches for files in the specified order and returns the first one it finds.

```nginx
location / {
    index index.$geo.html index.htm index.html;
}
```

The `$geo` variable used here is a custom variable set through the [geo](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_geo_module.html#geo) directive. The value of the variable depends on the client’s IP address.

To return the index file, NGINX checks for its existence and then makes an internal redirect to the URI obtained by appending the name of the index file to the base URI. The internal redirect results in a new search of a location and can end up in another location as in the following example:

```nginx
location / {
    root /data;
    index index.html index.php;
}

location ~ \.php {
    fastcgi_pass localhost:8000;
    #...
}
```

Here, if the URI in a request is `/path/`, and `/data/path/index.html` does not exist but `/data/path/index.php` does, the internal redirect to `/path/index.php` is mapped to the second location. As a result, the request is proxied.

## Trying Several Options

The [try_files](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#try_files) directive can be used to check whether the specified file or directory exists; NGINX makes an internal redirect if it does, or returns a specified status code if it doesn’t. For example, to check the existence of a file corresponding to the request URI, use the `try_files` directive and the `$uri` variable as follows:

```nginx
server {
    root /www/data;

    location /images/ {
        try_files $uri /images/default.gif;
    }
}
```

The file is specified in the form of the URI, which is processed using the `root` or `alias` directives set in the context of the current location or virtual server. In this case, if the file corresponding to the original URI doesn’t exist, NGINX makes an internal redirect to the URI specified by the last parameter, returning `/www/data/images/default.gif`.

The last parameter can also be a status code (directly preceded by the equals sign) or the name of a location. In the following example, a `404` error is returned if none of the parameters to the `try_files` directive resolve to an existing file or directory.

```nginx
location / {
    try_files $uri $uri/ $uri.html =404;
}
```

In the next example, if neither the original URI nor the URI with the appended trailing slash resolve into an existing file or directory, the request is redirected to the named location which passes it to a proxied server.

```nginx
location / {
    try_files $uri $uri/ @backend;
}

location @backend {
    proxy_pass http://backend.example.com;
}
```

For more information, watch the [Content Caching](https://www.nginx.com/resources/webinars/content-caching-nginx-plus/) webinar on‑demand to learn how to dramatically improve the performance of a website, and get a deep‑dive into NGINX’s caching capabilities.