Capture detailed information about errors and request processing in log files, either locally or via syslog.

This article describes how to configure logging of errors and processed requests in NGINX Open Source and NGINX Plus.

## Setting Up the Error Log

NGINX writes information about encountered issues of different severity levels to the error log. The [error_log](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log) directive sets up logging to a particular file, `stderr`, or `syslog` and specifies the minimal severity level of messages to log. By default, the error log is located at **logs/error.log** (the absolute path depends on the operating system and installation), and messages from all severity levels above the one specified are logged.

The configuration below changes the minimal severity level of error messages to log from `error` to `warn`:

```nginx
error_log logs/error.log warn;
```

In this case, messages of `warn`, `error` `crit`, `alert`, and `emerg` levels are logged.

The default setting of the error log works globally. To override it, place the [error_log](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log) directive in the `main` (top-level) configuration context. Settings in the `main` context are always inherited by other configuration levels (`http`, `server`, `location`). The `error_log` directive can be also specified at the [http](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#http), [stream](https://nginx.org/en/docs/stream/ngx_stream_core_module.html#stream), `server` and [location](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#location) levels and overrides the setting inherited from the higher levels. In case of an error, the message is written to only one error log, the one closest to the level where the error has occurred. However, if several `error_log` directives are specified on the same level, the message are written to all specified logs.

The following examples define the log format that extends the predefined **combined** format with the value indicating the ratio of gzip compression of the response. The format is then applied to a virtual server that enables compression.

```nginx
http {
    log_format compression '$remote_addr - $remote_user [$time_local] '
                           '"$request" $status $body_bytes_sent '
                           '"$http_referer" "$http_user_agent" "$gzip_ratio"';

    server {
        gzip on;
        access_log /spool/logs/nginx-access.log compression;
        ...
    }
}
```