# About the public npm registry

The public npm registry is a database of JavaScript packages, each comprised of software and metadata. Open source developers and developers at companies use the npm registry to contribute packages to the entire community or members of their organizations, and download packages to use in their own projects.

To get started with the registry, [sign up for an npm account](https://www.npmjs.com/signup) and check out the "[Getting started](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started)" and [CLI](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli-documentation) documentation.

# About packages and modules

The npm registry contains packages, many of which are also Node modules, or contain Node modules. Read on to understand how they differ and how they interact.

## About packages

A **package** is a file or directory that is described by a `package.json` file. A package must contain a `package.json` file in order to be published to the npm registry. For more information on creating a `package.json` file, see "[Creating a package.json file](https://docs.npmjs.com/creating-a-package-json-file)".

Packages can be unscoped or scoped to a user or organization, and scoped packages can be private or public. For more information, see

- "[About scopes](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-scopes)"
- "[About private packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-private-packages)"
- "[Package scope, access level, and visibility](https://docs.npmjs.com/package-scope-access-level-and-visibility)"

### About package formats

A package is any of the following:

- a) A folder containing a program described by a `package.json` file.
- b) A gzipped tarball containing (a).
- c) A URL that resolves to (b).
- d) A `<name>@<version>` that is published on the registry with (c).
- e) A `<name>@<tag>` that points to (d).
- f) A `<name>` that has a `latest` tag satisfying (e).
- g) A `git` url that, when cloned, results in (a).

### npm package git URL formats

Git URLs used for npm packages can be formatted in the following ways:

- `git://github.com/user/project.git#commit-ish`
- `git+ssh://user@hostname:project.git#commit-ish`
- `git+http://user@hostname/project/blah.git#commit-ish`
- `git+https://user@hostname/project/blah.git#commit-ish`

The `commit-ish` can be any tag, sha, or branch that can be supplied as an argument to `git checkout`. The default `commit-ish` is `master`.

## About modules

A **module** is any file or directory in the `node_modules` directory that can be loaded by the Node.js `require()` function.

To be loaded by the Node.js `require()` function, a module must be one of the following:

- A folder with a `package.json` file containing a `"main"` field.
- A JavaScript file.

**Note:** Since modules are not required to have a `package.json` file, not all modules are packages. Only modules that have a `package.json` file are also packages.

In the context of a Node program, the `module` is also the thing that was loaded *from* a file. For example, in the following program:

```js
var req = require('request')
```

we might say that "The variable `req` refers to the `request` module".

# About scopes

Note: You must be using npm version 2 or greater to use scopes. To upgrade to the latest version of npm, on the command line, run

```highlighter-rouge
npm install npm@latest -g
```

When you sign up for an npm user account or create an organization, you are granted a scope that matches your user or organization name. You can use this scope as a namespace for related packages.

A scope allows you to create a package with the same name as a package created by another user or organization without conflict.

When listed as a dependent in a `package.json` file, scoped packages are preceded by their scope name. The scope name is everything between the `@` and the slash:

- **"npm" scope:**

```
@npm/package-name
```

- **"npmcorp" scope:**

```
@npmcorp/package-name
```

To create and publish public scoped packages, see "[Creating and publishing scoped public packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/creating-and-publishing-scoped-public-packages)".

To create and publish private scoped packages, see "[Creating and publishing private packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/creating-and-publishing-private-packages)".

## Scopes and package visibility

- Unscoped packages are always public.
- [Private packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-private-packages) are always scoped.
- Scoped packages are private by default; you must pass a command-line flag when publishing to make them public.

For more information on package scope and visibility, see "[Package scope, access level, and visibility](https://docs.npmjs.com/package-scope-access-level-and-visibility)".

# npm package scope, access level, and visibility

Visibility of npm packages depends on the scope (namespace) in which the package is contained, and the access level (private or public) set for the package.

Note: To create organization-scoped packages, you must first create an organization. For more information, see "[Creating an organization](https://docs.npmjs.com/creating-an-organization)".

## Public registry

| Scope    | Access level | Can view and download                                        | Can write (publish)                                          |
| -------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Org      | Private      | Members of a team in the organization with read access to the package | Members of a team in the organization with read and write access to the package |
| Org      | Public       | Everyone                                                     | Members of a team in the organization with read and write access to the package |
| User     | Private      | The package owner and users who have been granted read access to the package | The package owner and users who have been granted read and write access to the package |
| User     | Public       | Everyone                                                     | The package owner and users who have been granted read and write access to the package |
| Unscoped | Public       | Everyone                                                     | The package owner and users who have been granted read and write access to the package |

Note: Only user accounts can create and manage unscoped packages. Organizations can only manage scoped packages.