# Downloading and installing packages locally

You can [install](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli-documentation/install) a package locally if you want to depend on the package from your own module, using something like Node.js `require`. This is `npm install`'s default behavior.

## Installing an unscoped package

Unscoped packages are always public, which means they can be searched for, downloaded, and installed by anyone. To install a public package, on the command line, run

```
npm install <package_name>
```

This will create the `node_modules` directory in your current directory (if one doesn't exist yet) and will download the package to that directory.

**Note:** If there is no `package.json` file in the local directory, the latest version of the package is installed.

If there is a `package.json` file, npm installs the latest version that satisfies the [semver rule](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-semantic-versioning) declared in `package.json`.

## Installed a scoped public package

[Scoped public packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-scopes) can be downloaded and installed by anyone, as long as the scope name is referenced during installation:

```
npm install @scope/package-name
```

## Installing a private package

[Private packages](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-private-packages) can only be downloaded and installed by those who have been granted read access to the package. Since private packages are always scoped, you must reference the scope name during installation:

```
npm install @scope/private-package-name
```

## Testing package installation

To confirm that `npm install` worked correctly, in your module directory, check that a `node_modules` directory exists and that it contains a directory for the package(s) you installed:

```
ls node_modules
```

# Downloading and installing packages globally

**Tip:** If you are using npm 5.2 or higher, we recommend using `npx` to run packages globally.

[Installing](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install) a package globally allows you to use the code in the package as a set of tools on your local computer.

To download and install packages globally, on the command line, run the following command:

```
npm install -g <package_name>
```

If you get an EACCES permissions error, you may need to reinstall npm with a version manager or manually change npm's default directory. For more information, see "[Resolving EACCES permissions errors when installing packages globally](https://docs.npmjs.com/resolving-eacces-permissions-errors-when-installing-packages-globally)".

# Updating packages downloaded from the registry

Updating local and global packages you downloaded from the registry helps keep your code and tools stable, usable, and secure.

## Updating local packages

We recommend regularly updating the local packages your project depends on to improve your code as improvements to its dependencies are made.

1. Navigate to the root directory of your project and ensure it contains a `package.json` file:

   ```
   cd /path/to/project
   ```

2. In your project root directory, run the [`update` command](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/update):

   ```
   npm update
   ```

3. To test the update, run the [`outdated` command](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/outdated). There should not be any output.

   ```
   npm outdated
   ```

## Updating globally-installed packages

**Note:** If you are using npm version 2.6.0 or less, run [this script](https://gist.github.com/othiym23/4ac31155da23962afd0e) to update all outdated global packages.

However, please consider upgrading to the latest version of npm:

```
npm install npm@latest -g
```

### Determining which global packages need updating

To see which global packages need to be updated, on the command line, run:

```
 npm outdated -g --depth=0
```

### Updating a single global package

To update a single global package, on the command line, run:

```
npm update -g <package_name>
```

### Updating all globally-installed packages

To update all global packages, on the command line, run:

```
npm update -g
```

# Using npm packages in your projects

Once you have [installed a package](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-packages) in `node_modules`, you can use it in your code.

## Using unscoped packages in your projects

### Node.js module

If you are creating a Node.js module, you can use a package in your module by passing it as an argument to the `require` function.

```javascript
var lodash = require('lodash');

var output = lodash.without([1, 2, 3], 1);
console.log(output);
```

### package.json file

In `package.json`, list the package under dependencies. You can optionally include a [semantic version](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-semantic-versioning).

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "package_name": "^1.0.0"
  }
}
```

# Uninstalling packages and dependencies

If you no longer need to use a package in your code, we recommend uninstalling it and removing it from your project's dependencies.

## Uninstalling local packages

### Removing a local package from your node_modules directory

To remove a package from your node_modules directory, on the command line, use the [`uninstall` command](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/uninstall). Include the scope if the package is scoped.

This uninstalls a package, completely removing everything npm installed on its behalf.

It also removes the package from the dependencies, devDependencies, optionalDependencies, and peerDependencies objects in your package.json.

Further, if you have an npm-shrinkwrap.json or package-lock.json, npm will update those files as well.

#### Unscoped package

```
npm uninstall <package_name>
```

#### Scoped package

```
npm uninstall <@scope/package_name>
```

### Example

```
npm uninstall lodash
```

### Removing a local package without removing it from package.json

Using the `--no-save` will tell npm not to remove the package from your `package.json`, `npm-shrinkwrap.json`, or `package-lock.json` files.

### Example

```
npm uninstall --no-save lodash
```

> `--save` or `-S` will tell npm to remove the package from your `package.json`, `npm-shrinkwrap.json`, and `package-lock.json` files. **This is the default**, but you may need to use this if you have for instance `save=false` in your `.npmrc` file.